# Machine-Learning

This repository contains homework assignments and the final project completed as a part of my machine learning course in graduate school. The details of homework assignments can be made available on request.

### [Final Project](https://github.com/rohitpenumarti/Machine-Learning/blob/master/FinalProject/final_project.ipynb)

For the final project, I was tasked with predicting the power consumption of three zones in the city of Tetouan in Morocco. This data is available on the UCI machine learning [repository](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/849/power+consumption+of+tetouan+city). For the approach, I first generated temporal features constructed from the datetime column from the original dataset. Then I employed a statistical feature selection method using the Variance Inflation Factor (VIF) for multi-regression analysis. I implemented a recursive method to determine features with the best VIF values and used those in the modeling process. I also used f regression to determine the most correlative features to the target data. Once completed, I then used minmax scaling to scale the features. I was required to survey a multitude of algorithms including a trivial and baseline regressor as well as improved models. For the models, I chose linear regression for the baseline predictor, and then ridge regression, support vector regression, multilayer perceptron regression, xgboost, and random forest regression. Out of all the models, random forest worked the best for all three zones and I achieved state of the art accuracy with random forest achieving a 45% reduction in RMSE.
